# Ensembles-of-deep-neural-networks-for-the-automatic-detection-of-building-facade-defects-from-images

## Abstract

Preserving the value of buildings and ensuring performance levels within acceptable parameters throughout their lifespan necessitates constant monitoring. Indeed, the absence of a continuous monitoring process poses a risk to the guaranteed use of the building. However, traditional diagnostic strategies, which rely on experts to visually inspect the built system components, result in time-consuming and expensive procedures.  
Thus, they may be neither cost-effective nor sustainable. The emergence of artificial intelligence based automatic monitoring in recent years has provided a valuable supplement to conventional inspection practices, potentially offering a supporting tool for building maintenance in smart cities. Exploiting machine learning algorithms for detecting or classifying building facade defects from acquired images is a promising strategy for automatic building monitoring.  
For this reason, in this work, we introduced a novel and effective classification protocol, based on different ensemble strategies of complex and recent deep neural networks, namely Vision Transformers and ConvNexts, for building facade defects automatic classification.  
We analyzed a custom dataset, named Facade Building Defects (FBD), containing building facade images labeled into four different defect classes, that we introduced in this work and released as open access. The proposed ensemble showed a test accuracy of 90.9%, achieving an improvement of 1.6% with respect to the best single model, thus empirically proving the benefit of model ensembling for the task of automatic building facade defects classification.
